In today's episode, I'm going to share
with you six easy video ideas that you
can use to go viral on Tik Tok. And I'm
going to show you a bunch of examples
from Tik Tok, but these videos can be
used to help you go viral on Instagram
or YouTube shorts as well. And I promise
you, if you stick around until the end
today and you try out these six video
ideas, you will go viral. Probably not
immediately, but definitely and
eventually. In case we've never met
before, hello. My name is Brock Johnson
and I am a social media strategist, an
Instagram growth coach, and I obsess
over figuring out what is working with
the algorithms and how you can have
success with your online brand or
business using short form video. A lot
of you may know me from Instagram, and
that is definitely my bread and butter
and my most popular platform. But what a
lot of people actually aren't aware of
is that I was successful on Tik Tok long
before I was successful on Instagram. I
actually had success on Tik Tok back in
2019 with a series of viral videos that
propelled me to over 300,000 followers
on the platform. And since then, while
the primary focus of my business has
shifted to Instagram, I still have
continued to consult with and help with
many brands and businesses that are
growing and super popular that you
probably know and can think of over on
Tik Tok. Before I actually share those
six different video ideas with you, I
did want to give you three quick tips to
help you go viral specifically on Tik
Tok. But again, a lot of this can be
applied to other platforms as well.
Number one, experimentation is key. The
algorithms are changing on a daily
basis. According to the CEO of Tik Tok
and the head of Instagram, they're
constantly tweaking and refining and
updating the algorithms. And in addition
to that, viewer preferences are always
changing. what people want to see, what
trends are effective, what people are
interested in, what pop culture
phenomenons are going on is constantly
evolving and changing and adapting. And
so you as a brand or business owner
who's looking to go viral and have
success on these platforms, you need to
be constantly adapting and changing as
well. I am in no way saying that you
need to chase every fad and every trend
that comes out. But what I am
recommending is that you don't just
consistently post the exact same style
of video over and over again for months.
I can't tell you how frequently I
receive messages from people saying,
"Brock, I've been posting the exact same
content for the last 12 months, but
recently it hasn't been performing as
well." And I say, "Well, exactly. For
the last year, you haven't changed your
content." Variety is the spice of life
and it is the price of likes. Brock
Johnson, trademark pending. I am a big
fan and proponent of constantly tweaking
your hooks, the words you're using and
not using, the style of videos that
you're creating, and just experimenting
with different trends and different
techniques on your social media. It
helps make it more fun and engaging for
you, more fun and engaging for your
followers. And the reality is, and I can
say this as a social media expert,
sometimes you just don't totally know
what is and what isn't going to work.
And the only way to find out is to try.
Tip number two for creating viral
content is probably the most important
key ingredient in any short form video,
and that is your hook. Your hook is by
far the most important piece of your
content. On Instagram, the average reel
is watched for less than 3 seconds,
about 2.4 seconds to be exact. On Tik
Tok, the average video is watched for
slightly longer, but we're still talking
just a handful of seconds. And so, if
you can get someone to watch past the
first 3 to 5 seconds, that alone is
going to set you above the rest. That
alone is literally going to make your
video perform above average. So, with
that being said, here are four quick
tips for your hook. Number one, aim to
be as concise as possible. I generally
recommend keeping your hooks between
five and eight words long. It's okay if
you're a little bit shorter or a little
bit longer, but I wouldn't suggest a
hook that is like 27 words long, and I
also wouldn't suggest a hook that's like
one or two words long. Usually, the best
hooks are going to be short sentences.
Think of newspaper headlines. The most
engaging headlines are the most engaging
hooks, and they're usually relatively
short sentences. My second tip for your
hook is to keep it simple. What we find
is that the hooks that perform the best
are at or below a fifth grade reading
level. So, dumb it down. Simplify the
words that you're using. I know you may
be tempted to use insider lingo or fancy
knowledge or some sort of special
acronym that only you and your friends
understand, but what we see is the more
big brain intelligent words you put in
your hook, the less likely people are to
keep watching. And the reason for that
is that when you confuse, you lose. And
when there's just a single word or
phrase or acronym that people don't
understand on social media, they're not
going to take the time to crack out the
dictionary or the encyclopedia and look
up what you're saying and trying to
figure it out. They're just going to
scroll. And I'm not trying to say that
your viewers or your followers or your
potential customers are dumb and
illiterate and not smarter than a fifth
grader. But the reality is most people
are unconsciously consuming. Most people
have their brain turned off. They're
sitting on the couch. They're laying in
bed. They're sitting in traffic. They're
in a waiting room. They're at school,
whatever. And they're scrolling through
dozens, if not hundreds, if not
thousands of videos. And so, you don't
have their full attention. They might
also be listening to a podcast or also
watching TV or also on a meeting or
something. And so, you need to dumb down
or simplify the words that you're saying
or the text on the screen in your hook
if you actually want to hook in your
viewers. Tip number three for creating
better hooks and thus helping you go
viral is to include a negative word or
phrase in your hook if possible. Now,
I'm a very positive person and
oftentimes when I talk about this,
people will say, "Brock, I'm I'm
positive. I don't want to be negative
all the time." Number one, I'm not
telling you to be negative all the time
and I'm not even telling you to be
negative. I'm just telling you to use
negative words. Let me give you an
example. If ESPN is writing a story and
they're trying to come up with the
headline, which again is basically the
hook for the story, and it's about a
team who won the game last night, the
headline will not read, "The team won
the game," which is positive. Instead,
it will be the team snapped a three-game
losing streak. Either way, it's a story
about how they won. but using the words
snapped and three-game losing streak,
they're including these negative words
or phrases, and thus they're more likely
to get your attention, your eyeballs,
and your clicks. And then my fourth and
final tip for improving your hooks is to
not just consider the words that you're
saying or the text on the screen, but
the actual visual. What are people
looking at? Generally speaking, it's
advantageous to have a human being
visually in your hook in those first 3
seconds. It's also advantageous to have
some sort of text on the screen, whether
it's subtitles of what you're saying, a
label for your video, or some additional
context. And then a third thing. The
third thing satisfies what's called the
rule of three. And that third thing
could be an emoji. It could be a prompt
or some sort of other visual element
that in some way relates to the video or
what you're talking about or whatever
it's going to be. My third and final tip
for creating better content, thus
increasing the likelihood that you go
viral before we even get into the six
viral video ideas, is to follow what we
like to call the miniskirt rule. Now,
the miniskirt rule, I've got in trouble
for calling it this in the past. In full
transparency, the miniskirt rule is not
named by me. It was named by one of our
Insta Club students, and I continue to
call this rule the miniskirt rule, not
because I want to objectify women, but
simply because I think it's going to
stick in your brain. So, enough beating
around the bush. The miniskirt rule is
that your content should be long enough
to cover what you need to cover, but
still short enough to hold attention. To
say it another way, it needs to be long
enough to cover the important bits, but
not any longer than that. Basically, you
want to be as succinct as possible. You
want to be as direct as possible. You
don't want to be redundant and say the
same thing multiple different ways, kind
of like I am right now. Instead, with
short form video, the goal is not
maximizing understanding by giving 17
different analogies and synonymous
sentences that's saying the same thing
backwards and forwards. Instead, it's
being as succinct as possible, being as
concise as possible, asking yourself
with each sentence, with each phrase,
and with each word, is this necessary?
Is this word or phrase or sentence
important and needed to keep someone
watching? Is it important and needed for
them to understand what this video is
about? Or is it potentially something
that could bore them, that could
distract them, or that is just not
needed in order to move the plot or to
move the tip or whatever your video is
about along. All right, with all of that
being said, let's get into the six viral
video ideas. Again, specifically for Tik
Tok, but these could be applied to
Instagram or YouTube Shorts or any other
short form video platform that pops up.
Number one is what I like to call the
anti- trend. We are all familiar with
trends. We are all familiar with the
popular lip syncs, the trending audios,
the video formats that everyone is
seemingly doing. But something that can
be really, really powerful is taking
whatever the popular trend is and doing
the opposite of it or doing the
unexpected with the trend. For example,
one of my good friends, Jeff, who is a
fellow social media strategist, did a
great anti-trend for the popular
trending audio, Anxiety. I know you know
the song. You're probably humming it in
your head right now. I don't need to
sing it, but it was a trend that was
super popular and everyone was using it
and there was even a little dance that
went along with it. Well, he started one
of his videos by playing that song and
then he cut himself off and he talked
about how we don't need to be speaking
anxiety onto ourselves. So, it was a
great way to take what was popular and
what was trending, but to flip it on its
head. Another example comes from Colleen
of No Shame Sales Game. And this anti-
trend was piggybacking off of the trend
where people were saying that they met
their younger selves for coffee. And
this trend was like, "Hey, I met myself
from 10 years ago and I showed up early,
but myself 10 years ago showed up late."
And it was kind of like comparing and
contrasting who you were in the past
versus who you are today. And it was
super popular and a lot of people were
doing it. Well, Colleen did a plot twist
on this trend where she was saying, "If
you're meeting your younger self for
coffee, you might be having a psychotic
break." So, it was funny. It was
unexpected and it was the anti- trend.
Now, of course, in order to create an
anti- trend, you have to know what's
trending in the first place. One way to
do that is to just scroll, but not
scroll unconsciously with your mind off.
Scroll consciously with your brain
turned on. And sometimes you can do this
by just listening to the audio. Don't
even look at the videos that are playing
on your Tik Tok for you page or on your
Instagram reels. Just close your eyes,
cover your screen, and and scroll. And
you'll notice, oh, hey, I just scrolled
10 times, but I heard the same song four
times. Okay, well, that's probably a
trending song or audio. Or, hey, I
noticed that everyone is using this
certain lip sync or the certain format
for their videos. That's a good
indication that that style of video is
trending. If you want to get a little
bit more advanced with it, there are
plenty of websites that are trend
trackers and that basically update on a
regular basis with popular sounds and
audios on the different platforms. And
we at the Insta Club send out a free
email every week with five trending
audios. I do want to note these are
trending audios for Instagram. So if you
specifically want trending audios for
Tik Tok, we can't help you out there.
But if you want five trending audios
every week for Instagram for free, we'll
put that link in the show notes below.
Okay, viral video idea number two is
street interviews. In general, any
content that is filmed outside is
usually going to outperform content that
is filmed inside. I believe that this is
because psychologically the viewer
understands that there are more
variables. There's more that could
happen. There's more dynamic things
happening outside out of the comfort of
our home rather than filmed within our
own home environment. I also think that
content that is filmed outside is
usually brighter. It's more dynamic.
There's more happening and more
changing. But viral video idea number
two is not just to film a video outside.
It's to do street interviews. Street
interviews are wild. Anything can
happen. Some of the most viral
personalities of our modern age. Some of
the most viral influencers and viral
sound bites have come from street
interviews. Yes, I'm looking at you hawk
to a girl. And yes, 15 years ago, I am
looking at you apparently, kid. But when
it comes to street interviews, you don't
have to be super complex. Basically,
just go to a popular street, a popular
area. If you live near a big downtown
city, that's awesome. If not, you might
have to drive a little bit or wait for a
local farmers market or a local festival
or just something where there's a big
community of people gathering together.
Bring your phone. You don't need a fancy
camera. Definitely bring an external
microphone because when you're filming
outside, there's a lot more wind and
just exterior noises. So, make sure to
bring a professional uh USB or even
pluggedin microphone so that you can
actually hear the audio from the
conversations. And then just ask people
questions that are related to your
niche. Maybe you're going to ask people
what they think about your industry.
Maybe you're going to ask for a
misconception. Maybe you're going to
quiz people relating to your industry
and you're going to kind of teach them
right there on the street. Maybe you're
going to set up a booth and ask people
to change your mind on a certain subject
relating to your niche, and then you're
going to debate people on that subject.
Maybe you're going to play a game where
you're going to guess what people do for
a living based off some things that
relate to your niche. There are so many
different examples. Street interviews
are a great way to go viral on Tik Tok.
Viral video idea number three is to take
an already popular or viral video and do
what's called stitch or duet the video.
Basically, these are the style of videos
where it starts with video number one,
the video from somebody else that has
already gone viral, that has gained
popularity, and then it cuts to video
number two, which is you addressing
video number one. Saving a quarter a day
is $10,000 at the end of the year. Let
that sink in. float that out because
that's not even close to true. A quarter
a day
times 365 days,
$91. You If you're going to look
at me like this,
you better be right. You were off by
$9,900.
Oh, wait. Actually, let me do leap year.
She may have meant leap year. Oh, no.
You're still not evening close. Now,
oftentimes the most viral commentary
videos are the ones that are opposed to
the original video. Maybe you're going
to argue with them or you're going to
give a rebuttal or you're going to give
your opinion and point of view. Or you
could take the opposite approach and
discuss why you agree with that popular
video. The key here is just make sure
that you're adding something. Make sure
that you're giving commentary or context
or that you are actually adding to the
video and you're not just saying, "Yeah,
I agree." Because that's not going to
work. Isn't it kind of funny that now
that women work, all the jobs they do
are just stuff they would have done at
home?
Did he green screen his car? Viral video
idea number four is the I'm logging off
template. This is a style of video where
essentially the purpose of the video is
to tell people that you're logging off.
Maybe you're deactivating the account.
Maybe you're not going to check the
account until some future date. And then
you're going to ask your audience for
some sort of engagement in return. I've
seen some people do this on a super
minute scale. People saying, "I'm a
travel creator and I'm about to be on a
six-hour flight from Los Angeles to New
York. Let's see if any big brands
comment in the next 6 hours." So, it's a
way to kind of gify your comment
section, and people will see that post,
they'll realize that there's some
urgency involved, and maybe they'll tag
some major travel brands. Other people
do this on a much more extended
timeline. They'll say things like, "I'm
logging off until January 1st, 2026.
Let's see how many followers I can have
by that date." And then maybe the post
will go viral and reach a bunch of
people. Of course, there are a lot of
challenges to this because then you're
not going to be posting until that later
date. Um, but there are different ways
that you could play around with this.
I've seen some people say, "I'm giving
this account to my dog or I'm giving
this account to my girlfriend as a
present on this date. Let's see how many
followers we can get by then. Viral
video idea number five is the put a
finger down trend. The put a finger down
trend started out very simply. People
would say things like put a finger down
if you've ever had chickenpox and then
they'd put a finger down. But the trend
is very much evolved on Tik Tok,
especially because Tik Tok is starting
to lean more into long- form content and
they're starting to give slightly more
preferential treatment towards posts
that are longer than a minute. But what
people are doing is they'll say, "Put a
finger down if." And then they'll tell a
really long story, a story that
absolutely no one who's watching can
relate to. And thus, no one who's
watching is going to put a finger down.
But it's just a way for them to tell
their story. Maybe it's really intricate
or complex or it's really dramatic. And
then at the end of the story, they just
go and they put their finger down. Here
are some examples of what that looks
like. Put a finger down. If you were at
work one day and a customer comes in and
you're in real estate, so you're walking
them around the house and it's great
chitchat on the first floor. It's going
really well and I'm like, "Let's go to
the second floor. Follow the leader.
Follow behind me." Which you never do.
You always walk behind them, but I was
new and I didn't know that yet. So, we
get up the stairs and all of a sudden
I'm like, "What's up with this dude?
He's acting weird all of a sudden." But
I don't know what could have happened in
the six and a half seconds from the
first floor to the second floor. So, I
just keep doing my spiel and I'm like,
"All right, like let's talk about next
steps." So, we go downstairs and go to
my office. I'm like, "Let me print these
things out for you." And every time I
have to print something, I have to turn
my back to him and walk to the printer
and get those items. And out of nowhere,
he's like, "I have to go." And I'm like,
"Okay,
are you not interested?" He's like, "I
have to go. I will call you." Um, okay.
And he leaves. And I go to the bathroom
and I realize my pants are split from
the back all the way to the middle and I
didn't have underwear on. So my luchi
was just free hanging um looking him
dead dead in the face as we walked up
the stairs and every time I went to the
printer.
And then finally, last, but definitely
not least, my sixth viral video idea
might have the most viral potential of
all, and it's to create a reoccurring
series or challenge that directly
relates to views or comments or follows
or some other form of engagement. For
example, there's this guy, Gage, who is
running one mile for every follower that
he gains. Well, unfortunately for him,
this series has gone mega viral, and he
now has more than 3 million followers
across all platforms. Of course, it's
damn near impossible for him to run 3
million miles, but he has been
documenting his journey along the way,
and he has been doing his best to run
multiple miles every single day now to
the point where he has lost over 100
lbs. And he's been doing this for over a
100 days straight. But before I show you
some other examples of what this might
look like, I just want you to think
about what are some challenges that you
could do that could relate to your niche
that you could do on a dayby-day basis.
Maybe if you are a rock climbing coach
who is giving tips to people who are
getting into the world of rock climbing,
you're going to climb one extra foot for
every follower that you have. Maybe if
you're a fitness coach, you're going to
do one push-up for every follower. Or if
you're a baker, you're going to bake one
cupcake for every follower. The bottom
line is while these videos often go
viral, it's up to you to put your own
creative spin and creative flare on it.
Maybe one of your own original versions
of one of these trending formats is
going to be covered in a future episode
of Build Your Tribe as the next viral
video idea. Usually viral videos exist
in this sweet spot, this middle ground
between what's already popular and
trending and what most people are used
to and your own unique style and flare
and personality and uniqueness. So,
while I showed you plenty of examples
and gave you plenty of ideas today, I
want you to remember to always include
what makes you you. Be yourself. Let
your freak flag fly. And as always,
happy networking.